Title
Abstract
This paper goes over an elementary implementation of a complete optical character recognition system, capable of recognizing handwritten digits from 0 to 9, and uppercase letters from A to Z. Prior to recognition, every image that is input into the system is thinned and scaled, with the option of processing multiple characters also available. Once scaled, each individual character is then put through the recognition system, which consists of the use of a statistical method where the ratio of black pixels to white pixels in certain zones of the image is calculated, and used to generate a feature vector to describe the input character. This feature vector is later compared to a large number of other feature vectors from test images in a database and the feature vector with the lowest Euclidean distance with the input image will then be used to recognize the image.
 
Introduction
An optical character recognition system, or OCR for short, is characterized by a conversion from images of handwritten or printed text into data that can be later used for processing by a computer system. OCR systems are typically used to process printed texts for applications such as digital storage, and electronic modifications. OCR systems can also be found in other applications, such as the translation of handwritten languages, as well as in text-to-speech implementations. 
Through the use of various functions, this optical character recognition system is able to recognize images of handwritten digits from 0 to 9, as well as uppercase letters from A to Z. After processing, the system will then output the digit or letter that it believes to most closely represent the image that was inputted. This process is explored more in depth in the following section.  
This paper will then explore the results of the proposed method, through the use of 75 test images per digits to test the system’s accuracy, which will then be used to explore the limitations of the statistical method for feature extraction that is used in this OCR system. 
Future considerations for improving the OCR system will then be explored in the penultimate section of this paper, where suggestions for future development are considered and discussed, and where areas of improvement within the current iteration of the system can be found.
